Hello everyone! In our last lesson, we stopped at the fact that when a character dies,
we stop all movement of the character around the scene. After five seconds, it is destroyed
and the controller is left without character, meaning it no longer possesses any pawn.
In the architecture of the engine, there is a special class for such purposes. It's called the spectator class.
Let's test the default class and replace the default pawn class with the spectator class.
In fact, it's just a pawn with a camera that flies around the scene. It has input
for movement and rotation with the mouse. This behavior is often used in games
when a character dies - we have the opportunity to watch the game continue.
Let's do this: when our character dies, we switch to the given spectator class.
Also, we don't need to create our own class. We will use the
default spectator class . The function that is responsible for switching the
pawn is in the controller, so let's at the top of our character class include the controller
header file GameFramework / Controller.h Let's go to the OnDeath function, which is called when
we die. We check the controller for validity. The pointer is in the variable controller.
And we call the controller function called ChangeState. It has one parameter of type FName. We will use a
constant called Name_Spectating. Open the header file of our controller
and press F12 on the base class playercontroller. In the search, enter ChangeState.
Press F12 again - we get into the .cpp file. In this function, the control of the pawn is changed.
In the function code, the change of two states is checked: one of them is Name_Spectating and the other Name_Playing,
which are respectively responsible for spectator pawn and regular pawn.
If we fall into the BeginSpectatingState function, we will see that at first the pawn is checked
or not, if it was, then UnPossess occurs, then the previous spectator is destroyed, if it was,
and at the end a new spectator spawns and the controller gets control over it.
We launch the project. We run into the red sphere, we die. The controller takes control of the spectator pawn.
That is, after death we can freely observe our character from the side.
And also, if you look in the world outliner during the game, you can find our spectator pawn here.